DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# 🚀 Deployment Setup Guide

## 📋 Pre-Deployment Checklist

### ✅ Required Configurations

#### 1. Firebase Setup
- [x] Firebase project created
- [x] Authentication enabled (Email/Password)
- [x] Firestore database created
- [x] Environment variables configured in `.env`
- [ ] **Firebase Security Rules configured** (see below)
- [ ] **Authorized domains updated** (after deployment)

#### 2. OpenAI Setup (Optional - for real AI features)
- [ ] OpenAI account created
- [ ] API key generated
- [ ] API key added to `.env` file
- [ ] API key added to hosting platform environment variables

#### 3. Environment Variables
Required variables in `.env` and hosting platform:
```
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_firebase_api_key
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-project.firebaseapp.com
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-project.firebasestorage.app
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=your_measurement_id
REACT_APP_OPENAI_API_KEY=sk-your_openai_api_key (optional)
```

## 🔒 Firebase Security Rules

### Firestore Rules
Copy these rules to Firebase Console → Firestore → Rules:

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    // Users can only access their own notes
    match /notes/{noteId} {
      allow read, write: if request.auth != null && 
        (resource.data.ownerId == request.auth.uid || 
         request.auth.uid in resource.data.sharedWith);
      allow create: if request.auth != null && 
        request.auth.uid == resource.data.ownerId;
    }
    
    // Users can read/write their own user document
    match /users/{userId} {
      allow read, write: if request.auth != null && request.auth.uid == userId;
    }
  }
}
```

## 🌐 Deployment Platforms

### Option 1: Vercel (Recommended)
1. Connect GitHub repository
2. Add environment variables in Settings → Environment Variables
3. Deploy automatically on push

### Option 2: Netlify
1. Connect GitHub repository
2. Build settings: `npm run build`, publish: `build`
3. Add environment variables in Site Settings

### Option 3: Firebase Hosting
```bash
npm install -g firebase-tools
firebase login
firebase init hosting
npm run build
firebase deploy
```

## 🔧 Post-Deployment Steps

### 1. Update Firebase Authorized Domains
In Firebase Console → Authentication → Settings → Authorized domains:
- Add your deployed domain (e.g., `your-app.vercel.app`)
- Keep `localhost` for development

### 2. Test Deployment
- [ ] Registration works
- [ ] Login works
- [ ] Note creation works
- [ ] AI features work (if OpenAI key configured)
- [ ] Search functionality works
- [ ] Theme toggle works

### 3. Monitor and Debug
- Check browser console for errors
- Monitor Firebase usage
- Check OpenAI API usage (if configured)

## 🚨 Common Issues

### White Page on Deployment
1. Check environment variables are set correctly
2. Check build logs for errors
3. Verify Firebase configuration
4. Check browser console for JavaScript errors

### AI Features Not Working
1. Verify OpenAI API key is valid and starts with 'sk-'
2. Check API key has sufficient credits
3. Verify environment variable name is correct

### Authentication Issues
1. Check Firebase authorized domains
2. Verify Firebase configuration
3. Check Firestore security rules

## 📊 Current Status

### AI Features
- **Status**: Demo Mode (Mock AI responses)
- **To Enable Real AI**: Add valid OpenAI API key to `REACT_APP_OPENAI_API_KEY`

### Firebase Features
- **Authentication**: ✅ Configured
- **Firestore**: ✅ Configured
- **Security Rules**: ⚠️ Needs setup

### Demo Data
- **Status**: ✅ Automatically loads for new users
- **Content**: 5 sample notes with various content types

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Get OpenAI API Key** (optional but recommended)
2. **Set up Firebase Security Rules**
3. **Deploy to hosting platform**
4. **Update Firebase authorized domains**
5. **Test all features**

---

**Note**: The app works perfectly in demo mode without OpenAI API key. All features are functional with mock AI responses.

Commit message:

� SECURITY FIX: Remove OpenAI API key from frontend - prevent key exposure in browser

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# 🚀 Deployment Setup Guide

## 📋 Pre-Deployment Checklist

### ✅ Required Configurations

#### 1. Firebase Setup
- [x] Firebase project created
- [x] Authentication enabled (Email/Password)
- [x] Firestore database created
- [x] Environment variables configured in `.env`
- [ ] **Firebase Security Rules configured** (see below)
- [ ] **Authorized domains updated** (after deployment)

#### 2. OpenAI Setup (⚠️ SECURITY WARNING)
- [x] **DISABLED for security** - Frontend API keys are not secure
- [x] Using enhanced mock AI instead
- [ ] For production: Implement secure backend API for OpenAI integration

#### 3. Environment Variables
Required variables in `.env` and hosting platform:
```
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_API_KEY=your_firebase_api_key
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_AUTH_DOMAIN=your-project.firebaseapp.com
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_PROJECT_ID=your-project-id
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_STORAGE_BUCKET=your-project.firebasestorage.app
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID=your_sender_id
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_APP_ID=your_app_id
REACT_APP_FIREBASE_MEASUREMENT_ID=your_measurement_id
# REACT_APP_OPENAI_API_KEY=disabled_for_security
```

## 🔒 Firebase Security Rules

### Firestore Rules
Copy these rules to Firebase Console → Firestore → Rules:

```javascript
rules_version = '2';
service cloud.firestore {
  match /databases/{database}/documents {
    // Users can only access their own notes
    match /notes/{noteId} {
      allow read, write: if request.auth != null && 
        (resource.data.ownerId == request.auth.uid || 
         request.auth.uid in resource.data.sharedWith);
      allow create: if request.auth != null && 
        request.auth.uid == resource.data.ownerId;
    }
    
    // Users can read/write their own user document
    match /users/{userId} {
      allow read, write: if request.auth != null && request.auth.uid == userId;
    }
  }
}
```

## 🌐 Deployment Platforms

### Option 1: Vercel (Recommended)
1. Connect GitHub repository
2. Add environment variables in Settings → Environment Variables
3. Deploy automatically on push

### Option 2: Netlify
1. Connect GitHub repository
2. Build settings: `npm run build`, publish: `build`
3. Add environment variables in Site Settings

### Option 3: Firebase Hosting
```bash
npm install -g firebase-tools
firebase login
firebase init hosting
npm run build
firebase deploy
```

## 🔧 Post-Deployment Steps

### 1. Update Firebase Authorized Domains
In Firebase Console → Authentication → Settings → Authorized domains:
- Add your deployed domain (e.g., `your-app.vercel.app`)
- Keep `localhost` for development

### 2. Test Deployment
- [ ] Registration works
- [ ] Login works
- [ ] Note creation works
- [ ] AI features work (if OpenAI key configured)
- [ ] Search functionality works
- [ ] Theme toggle works

### 3. Monitor and Debug
- Check browser console for errors
- Monitor Firebase usage
- Check OpenAI API usage (if configured)

## 🚨 Common Issues

### White Page on Deployment
1. Check environment variables are set correctly
2. Check build logs for errors
3. Verify Firebase configuration
4. Check browser console for JavaScript errors

### AI Features Not Working
1. Verify OpenAI API key is valid and starts with 'sk-'
2. Check API key has sufficient credits
3. Verify environment variable name is correct

### Authentication Issues
1. Check Firebase authorized domains
2. Verify Firebase configuration
3. Check Firestore security rules

## 📊 Current Status

### AI Features
- **Status**: Demo Mode (Mock AI responses)
- **To Enable Real AI**: Add valid OpenAI API key to `REACT_APP_OPENAI_API_KEY`

### Firebase Features
- **Authentication**: ✅ Configured
- **Firestore**: ✅ Configured
- **Security Rules**: ⚠️ Needs setup

### Demo Data
- **Status**: ✅ Automatically loads for new users
- **Content**: 5 sample notes with various content types

## 🎯 Next Steps

1. **Get OpenAI API Key** (optional but recommended)
2. **Set up Firebase Security Rules**
3. **Deploy to hosting platform**
4. **Update Firebase authorized domains**
5. **Test all features**

---

**Note**: The app works perfectly in demo mode without OpenAI API key. All features are functional with mock AI responses.
